📋 每日新闻简讯 | 2026年06月20日

各位读者好，以下是今日精选的 15 条国内外重要新闻：

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

1. Every fusion startup that has raised over $100M
   Fusion startups have raised $7.1 billion to date, with the majority of it going to a handful of companies.

2. Is the US government’s Anthropic ban accidentally helping the brand?
   Just as last week&#160;was ending,&#160;the US government&#160;forced Anthropic to pull its two newest models, Fable 5 and Mythos 5, citing national security concerns after Amazon researchers alleg...

3. Billionaire Ambani wants AI in every call, app, and home
   Reliance is weaving AI into telecom services used by more than 500 million people.

4. The CEO of Allbirds’ new AI biz has a plan, but no employees
   Call it a startup with a sole founder and a very large seed round, but what's next is less clear.

5. The US says ASML’s top chip tool may be in China. ASML says it isn’t
   There's a commercial logic that cuts against the idea that ASML would risk its export license to arm a Chinese customer.

6. Telegram ban in India sparks a rush to VPNs, rival apps
   Telegram argues India should block specific content, not an entire platform used by millions.

7. Source: Elastic agrees to buy CRV-backed DeductiveAI for up to $85M
   DeductiveAI, a startup that uses AI to catch and resolve bugs in software, was founded just three years ago.

8. AI inference startup Baseten reportedly raising $1.5B months after its last mega-round
   Startup Baseten is reportedly close to finalizing a $1.5 billion round at a $13 billion as the “inference gold rush" marches on.

9. Snap spins off AI video team into new company, Dotmo, due to costs
   The Snapchat maker is spinning off yet another internal unit. Dotmo will be composed of current Snap staff who are leaving the social media company to focus on AI video development.

10. OpenAI is bringing on some big guns in the lead-up to its IPO
   OpenAI is bulking up before its IPO, landing Transformer co-inventor Noam Shazeer from Google DeepMind and former Trump AI policy official Dean Ball in the same week.

11. The 11 standout startups from YC’s Demo Day, according to VCs
   TechCrunch spoke to investors to find the hottest startups in the Spring 2026 YC batch. Some of them commanded valuations of over $175 million, VCs said.

12. Rivian owners file lawsuit alleging false promises on self-driving features
   Plaintiffs in the class -action complaint allege Rivian falsely promised for years it would bring hands-free driving to its first-generation R1 vehicles.

13. Almost half of US singles feel negatively about AI in dating, Match says
   About 47% of singles look negatively at the use of AI in dating -- but many dating app users are open to AI helping with profile punch-ups and conversation starters.

14. Amazon hopes to challenge Nvidia more directly by selling its AI chips
   AWS is in talks to sell its chips to other data centers. CEO Andy Jassy has said this represents a $50 billion opportunity for the company.

15. Mivo’s new app takes a mindful approach to managing screen time
   Notably, unlike other apps that might just try to pull you away from your phone, Mivo lets the user decide if they want to continue, encouraging users to become more aware of how and why they’re us...

16. Hue’s wired wall modules bring non-smart lights into its ecosystem
   Smart lighting company Philips Hue has launched its first wired wall modules. Installed behind existing wall switches, the new devices bring non-smart lights into the Hue ecosystem for the first ti...

17. The NTS Radio Player brings the best of internet radio to your hi-fi
   NTS Radio and Swedish audio company Atonemo have teamed up on a dedicated player that brings NTS's genre-defying mixes and streaming stations to almost any stereo or speaker setup. And, like Atonem...

18. The film about Sam Altman has been dropped by Amazon MGM
   Luca Guadagnino's film about OpenAI CEO Sam Altman, Artificial, has reportedly been dropped by Amazon MGM. The film, which stars Andrew Garfield and covers the rollercoaster five days in 2023 spann...

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
以上内容为今日精选新闻简讯，感谢阅读。
欢迎转发分享，让更多人了解世界动态。